---
layout: post
cover: 'assets/images/covers/week5.jpeg'
title: Week 5
subtitle: Reset
date:   2016-09-24 16:00:00
tags: week4
subclass: 'post tag-test tag-content'
categories: 'giovanni'
navigation: True
logo: 'assets/images/logo.png'
---

## What did I do this past week?
This week I have wrapped things up with Netflix, and proceeded to close that dark chapter of my time at UT where frustration often took over my sanity.

I learned different things by working on the Netflix project:

- C++ should not be at top of your list for machine learning,
- Serialization is great if it works,
- Having an isolated development environment/container like Docker is great if you can get everything set up in it,
- Don't share a single Travis-CI worker with 160 more people, running computationally expensive jobs.

Besides reflecting on Netflix, this week we explored some more C++ concepts, including the different types of iterators and the whole notion of function definition with the weakest possible iterator. We had also had an illuminating talk about software development at JPL.

I've also been to the CNS Career Fair on Tuesday and it was a great opportunity to talk to employers and getting to know the companies that they were representing.

## What's in my way?
Lack of time is on my way. Interviewing for internships while taking a full load of courses requires a great deal of prioritizing and compromising. It hasn't been too bad though.

## What will I do next week?
Next week I'll make a plan to review for tests and exams.

## Tip of the week
[Hadoop](https://hadoop.apache.org/). We talked about MapReduce in class, and if you're really interested in distributed computation, you should consider learning the framework inspired by the work at Google. Also, I'm taking a Big Data Programming class which teaches Hadoop and Spark this semester, and you should check that out as well.