---
layout: post
cover: 'assets/images/covers/week1.jpeg'
title: Week 1
subtitle: Hello, world!
date:   2016-08-27 13:00:00
tags: week1
subclass: 'post tag-test tag-content'
categories: 'giovanni'
navigation: True
logo: 'assets/images/logo.png'
---

Hello, world!

This is my first class in UT and UTCS, and I could not be happier that CS 371p taught by professor Downing is the one marking this milestone. 

For context, I am an Exchange student from the University of Edinburgh in Scotland, United Kingdom. I have the great opportunity of spending two semesters here at the University of Texas at Austin.

I see three main benefits to having to document part of my academic experience at UT through this blog:

1. For **future students considering to take this class**, you can reference this blog and have a more personal, detailed feedback on the course;
2. For **prospective exchange students**, you can learn about what the differences in the US education system and why an International Exchange in the USA can open opportunities uniquely available here, home of academic excellence;
3. For **me**, I can take a moment every week to reflect on the concepts that I learn this semester, which I am sure would reinforce their overall understanding.

## A Different Approach
### Interactive
I'll begin by talking about the thing that shocked me the most. **The interactivity of classes**. Back in my home University, most lectures comprise of a lecturer who talks and an audience of students who listens. The flow is unidirectional. There is no interactivity, no dialogue. It's a passive experience for students.

CS 371p is designed by professor Downing to involve students in class dialogue––the structure of the class promotes discussion, students are challenged with every new concept.

Continuous evaluation is at the heart of the course. Quizzes are scheduled daily and touch on often non-trivial concepts that have been discussed in lecture. This motivates me to gain a much deeper understanding of the subject, and decreases the chances of falling behind.

### Social
As was mentioned in class, Computer Science students are one of the most anti-social groups in the University. Paradoxically, development teams in most companies are all designed to be collaborative environments. Effective communication is essential in creating the dynamics for the development of successful products.

CS 371p aims to provide an experience that simulates as much as possible a real working environment in an academic setting. An awkward "meet-your-neighbors" moment was forced on us the first minutes of class. Projects were introduced as being meant to be worked on as pairs of students.

